---
layout: post
title: "Context"
date: 2015-06-21
backgrounds:
    - http://julia-pollack.github.io/assets/photo/2015-08-04%2008.50.14.jpg

thumb: http://julia-pollack.github.io/assets/photo/2015-06-28%2012.00.59-1.jpg
category: photography
tags: context data digital humanities
---
This project is split into three sections. Numerical Geospatial Data as Evidence, First Hand Accounts or Textual Account as Evidence, and Photography as Evidence; each section outlines the different types of data as evidence. Each section participates in an analysis of these data forms.

<a href="https://github.com/julia-pollack/julia-pollack.github.io/tree/master/assets/geospacial/reporter_app">The first section</a>, Numerical Geospatial Data as Evidence, utilizes spatial statistics to build a picture of the journey. This section relies on the data collection application ‘Reporter,’, and the ArcGis program to form an argument about the relational findings of the quantitative information gathered. <a href="https://github.com/julia-pollack/julia-pollack.github.io/blob/master/assets/journal/journals.txt">The second section</a> is informed by the practice of autoethnography and qualitative data analysis to consider the First Hand Accounts or Textual Account as Evidence written throughout our travels. The coding of this data forms thematic elements that define the purpose and intentions of this journey. <a href="https://github.com/julia-pollack/julia-pollack.github.io/tree/master/assets/photo">The last section</a>, Photography as Evidence looks at the body of photographic data collected on this journey and considers the purpose of and historical context for the documentation of these images.

All of the raw data discussed in this project is open and available in the <a href="https://github.com/julia-pollack/julia-pollack.github.io/tree/master/assets">Github repository created for this project.</a> The entirety of this project is laid open, the initial website for the project is online along with as is the subsequent data and analysis project. This project identifies as Digital Humanities, utilizing the ‘Big Tent’ theory to position itself as a critical work constructed as a digital object that utilizes many digital tools to assist in the mode of inquiry of its own production. In Patrik Svensson’s essay “Beyond the Big Tent” he considers the Digital Humanities “as a trading zone and meeting place, we can acknowledge disciplinary and methodological expertise, while approaching grand challenges, relating key disciplinary discourses, supporting multiple modes of engagement, with the digital, and distinctly engaging with the future of Humanities.” This project hopes to engage with all of these possible readings of the Digital Humanities field as praxis-based processes of humanities, questioning the use of digital tools and spaces for presentation and analysis. The open online aspect of this project seeks to make available the multiple modes of questioning engaged with this data as well as encourage a sharing of the information that constructs this data.

## Footnotes

1. “Crossing the Great Divide” <a href="http://www.crossingthegreatdivide.net/">http://www.crossingthegreatdivide.net/</a> Web. 6 April 2016.
2. “Travelogue” http://julia-pollack.github.io/ Web. 6 April 2016.
3. Gold, Matthew K., ed. 2012. Debates in the Digital Humanities. Minneapolis, MN, USA: University of Minnesota Press. Accessed April 6, 2016. ProQuest ebrary.
4. Gold, Matthew K., ed. 2012. Debates in the Digital Humanities. Minneapolis, MN, USA: University of Minnesota Press. Accessed April 6, 2016. ProQuest ebrary.
5. Mahony, S., U. Tiedau, I. Sirmons, Warwick, C, Terras, M, and Nyhan, J. "Open Access and Online Teaching of Digital Humanities." Warwick, C and Terras, M and Nyhan, J, (eds.) Digital Humanities in Practice. Facet: London. (2012). Facet, 2012.

Conclusion

This project was initially inspired as a participatory way to engage with the history of the American West. We sought to find a way to complicate the story of exploration laid down by Lewis and Clark and the mythology of the American landscape. We wanted to keep an open mind as we travelled, knowing that we bring our cultural bias and contextual knowledge with us wherever we move. We wanted to collect and construct a memory of our own westward movement with a conscientious awareness of ourselves as outsiders. With this in mind we chose to collect as many different forms of data and evidence that would could carry with us. Our initial mode of questioning was an attempt to represent a more complex notion of the American West with a first hand experience of the incongruencies of our notions of the land itself. We collected quantitative geospatial data and qualitative data in the form of journals and photographs. Each of these data forms required their own specific model for analysis. In future iterations of this project I would like to consider how different kinds of information can shed light on an experience. How can quantitative and qualitative data collection methods assist each other in representing and event and translating that to an audience?
These investigatory practices were outlined so as to share the ways in which other researchers may choose to engage with seemingly disparate forms of information. Each data form served as a kind of evidence, outlining an aspect of the experience of our journey travelled. Each form of data had strength of information dependent on the parameters of its measurement. The numerical data showed proof of correlation between experience and recorded measure, the journaling data showed intent and experiential representation of history and space, and finally the photographic data showed a persistence an awareness of history in our contemporary notions of landscape. Each of these data forms have their own strengths and weakness, and theories that may be brought to the forefront along with its own biases and obfuscations. By placing them together we may see a more complex structural use of each. This project is meant to serve as a model for analysis and data collection. As Digital Humanities scholars venture into unknown spaces of research it is not only important to be informed about the traditions and conceptions of the field in which they originate but it becomes useful to see a myriad of other methods of investigation and documentation. By modeling this whole process in an open web format I hope to create a reference point for my own multimodal humanities investigation and encourage other researchers to take what I have outlined and use it as a way to enhance their own process. 